Now did we learned that we can use tabs to split up the navigation stack to add or a stack of pages
to manage two different stacks of pages let's add tabs and actually did tabs are added as a separate
page.
So let's quickly add a new page year I'll add a new direct directory because when I edit manually and
in that page folder I'm going to name those tabs SANDS Well this page will only hold my tabs.
I will soon explain how that works.
Let me add a component there and I'll name it taps.
Taps dot ts of course is the file name.
And then there I want to export a class which will name tap's page.
This page also receives the normal component decorator imported from angular of course.
So let's quickly add to import at the top here.
Import component from at angular core with this added Of course we want to initialize this year so I'm
going to give to a selector of page tabs and I'll assign a template now this template here could go
into an extra file as we used to do that.
But since it's going to be a very short template I'm actually going to inline it.
So back to x.
I'm creating a string expression here and I can write a real multiple lines here.
Now how does this template look like for the tabs page use salt yabber pages which always had I and
header.
And then I and content and so on.
Now the tabs pages are different because tap's wilds placed in their own page and ionic to simply give
us a frame to load over pages inside of them.
Keep in mind the tabs are only at the bottom of the page so they don't actually make up the full page.
Only a fraction of it.
But then they will enclose the page which gets loaded Fruita tabs.
The set up is necessary because if the taps page would be a totally separate page and would take up
the full page Wilden clicking on a tab would remove that page and we would see the loaded page instead
which we don't want to do.
Right.
So instead let's add the ion tabs component in there.
I have a special component ionic to ships with which allows us to well set up some taps inside of taps.
We will create individual I-and tab components.
So singular for I and tab's therefore has the wrapper and inside of it we define which taps we actually
want to have.
Now I can tap on and need some configuration.
It needs to have the root properties set fruit property binding.
And here we have to reference a property only mode favorites page.
This property doesn't exist yet.
So let's create a here in the body of this tap's page.
Favorite page and I'll assign a value and this value of course should be our favorites page so favorites
page has the name here with ass.
We also need to import the favorite's page up here of course which is we are telling to you when this
tab here is clicked.
Actually load the favorite's page in this empty space.
This taps page gives us so you can think of D ion tap's component giving us not only the taps at the
bottom but also a placeholder Virdi actually page or the actual loaded page depending on which tab we
clicked on will be loaded in.
And this is important if you keep the navigation concept in mind keep in mind that the top most pages
the page you view.
So again if clicking a tab would mean that we simply push a new page on that stack.
It would also mean that we make the taps disappear.
Right.
Because the newly pushed page won't have the tabs at the bottom.
Therefore we have this different set up where we instead split up the navigation stack and have a separate
navigation stack rendered inside of this taps page kind of in this empty placeholder.
Of course a tab without any I can all text is pretty boring though.
So let's add a title to this tap with the tap title property here and here I want to set a title of
favorites just like that.
And we can also add another property if you also want to add I can though we can also just use a title.
We can also just use I can here I want to mix it so I will also provide to tab I can property just a
number property I untap component is able to handle.
Now what do we have to enter here though we can find this out in the official ionic documentation.
If we have a look at it.
Ionic framework dot com slash docs we can click on I-and icons and I'd save for a favorite.
We should pick a fitting icon so let's search for favorite here.
And we actually see a couple of good icons.
I really like to star most star the text you see here and that's true for any I can already is the name
of Dyken so we can simply go back and enter star here just like this.
And now we will have a tab with the star icon and the favorite's text below it or depending on which
platform you are at.
This will be placed automatically does this cool.
Let's also add another tap and just tap your should actually hold our library.
So here I'm going to assign the root property to tail Ionescu which page you should get rendered in
this empty place in the pages and he taps page here.
And here I want to load the library page.
So let's also add this property your library page.
It should reference of course the library page class.
So make sure to add this import here at the top.
Now with that added I want to set a tile here of course so I'll name a library and we all see the icon.
Now let's search for a thing I can.
Let's see if we find something fitting when searching for a library.
Not really but a library also contains books so maybe a book is good or you could of course choose a
bookmark whatever you like.
I'm going to go with the book though so I will simply add book here.
And with that did Hap's page is finished.
This is our tap's page which will allow us to collect those taps and then load the different pages depending
on which tab last clicked the last step of course is to use this page as our route page instead of the
favorites page as we're currently doing.
So let's go to our app component here and anywhere.
I simply want to change route page to tap's page.
So hit enter and also make sure to add this import.
We can now get rid of the import of favorite's page though it's no longer needed because we changed
the tabs page or we changed the route page I should say.
So let safeties and recompile it and it would not work like that though because we did not add 2 AB
module so make sure to add tabs page here too.
It is a normal page and yes keep that in mind also at the import and also added to entry components.
Now with Def Leppard recompile one more time.
And now if we have a look at the running application here you see the two tabs at the bottom here and
I can switch between them and by the title you can tell that it correctly switches to a page.
And this is what I meant was mentioning the tabs page.
Is this full page.
But it basically only occupies this space here at the bottom and all that space at the top here is the
free space.
The kind of hook where you can load which ever page needs to be loaded depending on which I can you
clicked it just as a side note.
How does it know which page to load first when you reload this page here.
Well it always automatically loads the page of the first tab it always automatically selects the first
tab.
Though you could change this by going to your tabs and only I entraps component itself.
You can set a selected index property and if you change this to one the index starts at 0.
You will see that it starts with the library page selected it see so this is how you could override
this default.
I'm going to reverse this because I like to have my first episode like that but if you need this changed
you can change it like this.
And as mentioned at the end of the last section.
A good place to dive deeper into this if you need far more detailed configuration you can go to the
API docs and simply look up the tabs here.
There you will learn more about how to place it and how to style it how to configure it to really find
to the to your needs.
The general functionality was shown here though and this is how you will probably use it in the majority
of your apps